hi fancy friends its Julie and today I'm
going to be talking about a rosacea
treatment that I actually tried out it
is a topical treatment that is meant
specifically for rosacea and it is
called pro zatia this is the box for it
and this is something that yeah I was
diagnosed with rosacea fifteen or
sixteen years ago now and this is
something that I have seen on the shelf
at the drugstore probably for the last
ten years of that and it's something
that I've kind of stared at because you
don't see a lot of products at the
drugstore that are specific to rosacea
you see anti redness and you see a lot
of eczema stuff but not a lot of stuff
that actually says it is a rosacea
treatment and that's what right on the
box right here it says rosacea treatment
and it says that it will help to treat
redness bumps and dryness
it's medicated it is a homeopathic
medication it is a topical gel and has
this little picture of this lady who has
a whole big flare up and then look blue
she's much better now yay anyway it says
enjoy healthier looking and feeling skin
and there is a whole pile of stuff to
read on the back and I'm going to open
it up there is also an entire
information sheet surprisingly a lot of
this is just about how to use it and
what's in it it really doesn't say much
about what you should expect using it so
I didn't know I found it really
confusing because a lot of products any
of the prescription drugs and things
like that that I've tried they've had
things where they say don't expect
results for eight weeks or this could
take a while or something like that this
one didn't say anything I didn't know
whether I should be expecting results
within minutes of putting it on or if
this was something that should build up
over time so what you get in the box
other than this some information sheet
is this little - looks like this
and it contains the it's a gel I don't
remember if I set that already but now
you definitely know that it's a gel and
the active ingredients in it are sulfur
and crisps are open um and then in
brackets it says extract from Goa powder
a substance deposited in the wood of and
Deera air arroba and all of the rest of
the ingredients of which there are quite
a few are non medicinal it's I've
noticed it's got lactose in it urea
whole pile of other things like that but
they are considered to be non non
medicinal so that must be kind of what
makes it into a gel and not necessarily
what will help your skin anyway so I did
use this I used it for I think three
weeks minus one day and I finally gave
up on it unfortunately I've seen a lot
of other youtubers who have used this
and who have used it with a lot of Lux
they've used it with some you know
gentle cleansers and they put this on
and they seem to be doing well with it I
used it on this side of my face only
just what I could compare the two sides
and the longer I used this be more
flared up my face got on this side and
then this side started flaring up too
and I think that could be because I used
it mostly at night and I think it could
be because I lie I was lying on my
pillowcase so it would sort of transfer
from one side of my face to the other
through my pillowcase which I changed
every single day but still during the
night it would swap from one side to the
other so as I said I have heard of a lot
of people having luck with this
I just didn't happen to be one of them
um I have tried a lot of products where
my skin has reacted very badly to them
at the beginning and then has changed
its mind and it's okay that stops the
original freakout the original flare-up
and then it gradually starts to get
better and better but in this case that
was not it at all um it started off the
first day I thought maybe this side of
my face looked a little bit better than
this one and then gradually over time it
just got worse and worse and worse and
worse until they actually reach the
point that I don't know if my skin has
ever been that bad before I'll put up a
picture on the screen to show you
because I did finally take a picture of
it so that I could share it on
Facebook and Twitter because that's
where I do a lot of my sharing so if you
do actually want to join me they're like
feel free to follow me on Facebook and
Twitter I do a lot of posts there but um
yeah so I'll put up the picture that I
took off of my cheek and of how
completely inflamed it was and it was
just covered in the papules and pustules
both of them it just it was completely
inflamed and puffed out it's very
uncomfortable
I'll show you what the stuff looks like
because I have a ton of it now that I
don't plan to use so it is a clear gel
just like that and despite the fact that
on the package it says it doesn't have
an offensive odor and when you first put
it on your your skin it doesn't seem to
smell like anything and it rubs in very
nicely actually
so you go like this and you rub it in
and then you give it a couple of minutes
maybe up to five minutes to dry and
there's not much it doesn't smell great
but doesn't smell like much over time
you start smelling like a rotten egg the
sulfur definitely comes alive and if you
sweat or if you start to oil start being
produced by your skin you get really
stinky um I had my visited my mother a
few times and I had her smell and she
said she could only smell it if she got
really close but the thing is it's on
your own skin so you're smelling it all
the time the entire time I was using
this I could smell it and I used that
was why I started using it mostly just
overnight because I could not stand
smelling like a rotten egg all day long
um just does it check back in on this
it's completely dry now so it's only
been like maybe thirty seconds so yeah
now I got it sinks in really quickly
yeah so it stinks to high heaven it
still stinks if you put makeup or even a
moisturizer on overtop it stinks right
on through so it does actually it is
very good for um but if you put a
moisturizer onto a moisturizer on top it
still absorbs normally if you put makeup
on top it lies normally on top it's just
perfectly normal it just sinks right
into the skin and it's like it's gone
except but it smells horrible yeah but
unfortunately my skin did not like it my
skin did not react well
it it's I'm glad that I tried it because
it is something that I have wanted to
try for so long now and I've been really
really really curious about it but I'm
so disappointed that it did that I was
almost hoping that it would do nothing
over actually causing it to be worse
that said when I stopped using it two
days later I was nearly back to normal
it's been three days now so I've still
got a little bit of redness on my face
more than what it would normally have
and I figure by you know tomorrow or the
next day it'll actually be kind of back
to the way that it actually was and
that's just from returning to regular
very gentle very high quality skin care
and I've started returning to light
therapy I started a new experiment about
that I'm not going to tell you about it
yet but I'm going to soon because I'm
really really really excited about it
but um yeah so I started testing that
out and at least so far it's bringing my
skin back to normal of where it normally
is so let's see if it can actually
improve it because I do have permanent
redness and I would love for that to go
away yep so that was my that was my
impression of using Pro zatia
for about three weeks - one day I used
it religiously it says you can use it
one two three times a day I used it 1 to
2 times because I just couldn't take the
smell of the rotten eggs anymore
and I did not have dry skin from it but
I did have horribly inflamed skin which
is very unfortunate but have you tried
rosacea before have any of you tried it
out I hope you will actually comment in
the description below and tell me about
whether or not it worked for you because
I'm very very curious because I've seen
some very positive reviews and I've seen
some very neutral reviews I'm the first
person I've seen who has actually had a
relatively negative experience with it
but then like you just never know with
rosacea how it's going to act um yeah so
I hope you'll share that story with me
and I hope you like this video if you
did please give it a big thumbs up and
if you want to see more videos like this
I make new videos every Sunday and
Thursday a big Matt I will see you next
time
you